---
layout: page
title: "Publications and communication"
permalink: "/publications/"
breadcrumb: true
header:
    image_fullwidth: "canyonland_bis.jpg"
    title: ""
---

---
### Reading shortlist to start with DREAM:
* __2018__ N. M. J. Hall, S. Leroux, T. Ambrizzi [Transient contributions to the forcing of the atmospheric annual cycle: A diagnostic study with the DREAM model](https://doi-org.gaelnomade-2.grenet.fr/10.1007/s00382-018-4539-y). Climate Dynamics, _Early Online Release_ [doi: 10.1007/s00382-018-4539-y].
* __2000__ N. M. J. Hall. [A Simple GCM Based on Dry Dynamics and Constant Forcing](http://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/10.1175/1520-0469%282000%29057%3C1557%3AASGBOD%3E2.0.CO%3B2). J. Atmos. Sci., 57:1557– 1572.
* __2006__ N. M. J. Hall. [Transient disturbances in the atmosphere and Ocean: their growth, transport properties and interaction with the general circulation](http://www.lthe.fr/PagePerso/boudevil/THESES/HDR/HDR_Hall_06.pdf). HDR.
* __2000__ N. M. J. Hall and J. Derome. Transience, Nonlinearity, and Eddy Feedback in the Remote Response to El Nin ̃o. J. Atmos. Sci., 57:3992–4007, 2000.
* __2001__ N. M. J. Hall, J. Derome, and H. Lin. The Extratropical Signal Generated by a Midlatitude SST Anomaly. Part I: Sensitivity at Equilibrium. Journal of Climate, 14:2035–2053.
*  __2006__ N. M. J. Hall, G. N. Kiladis, and C. D. Thorncroft. Three dimensional structure and dynamics of African Easterly Waves. Part II: Dynamical modes. J. Atmos. Sci., 63:2231–2245, 2006.
* __2009__ S. Leroux. [(_in french_) Chapter 3 in: Dynamique des ondes d’est africaines: origine, propagation and interaction avec l’environment](https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-00434322/document). PhD thesis, LTHE - UJF Grenoble.

---
### Other studies using DREAM:
* __2013__ N. M. J. Hall, H. Douville, and L. Li. Extratropical summertime response to tropical interannual vari- ability in an idealised GCM. Journal of Climate, 26:7060–7079.
*  __2009__ S. Leroux and N. M. J. Hall. On the relationship between African Easterly Waves and the African Easterly Jet. J. Atmos. Sci., 66:2303–2316.
* __2010__ S. Leroux, N. M. J. Hall, and G. N. Kiladis. Intermittent african easterly wave activity in a dry atmo- spheric model: influence of the extratropics. J. Climate, 24:5378–5396.
* __2004__ N. M. J. Hall. The atmospheric response to boundary forcing and the use of diagnostic models. J. Phys. IV France, 121:125–137.

---
### Presentations:
* __2017__ Aug.  "DREAM training" presentation, by Nick Hall, [[PDF]]()

--- 
### Technical docs:
* Initial [technical documents](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/0B4GlUWNWme2gcjJyazdWUHFzVG8?usp=sharing) from University of Reading about IGCM.

